R1 Single-Family District To provide for single-family development at the lowest density within the City and to preserve the present physical character of the area while providing for in-fill development. R2 Single-Family Residential District To provide for small lot single-family development at a relatively low density and to preserve the present physical character of that area while providing for in-fill development. R3 Two-Family Residential District To provide for in-fill development of single and two-family residences in moderate density neighborhoods and to preserve the physical character of such neighborhoods.

Minimum Lot size and width for R1 All Uses: 7200 square feet, R2 All uses: 5000 square feet, R3 Single-family: 5000 square feet, R3 Two-family: 3500 square feet, R3 Non-residential: 7200 square feet

The minimum lot width in the R1-R3 districts is 35 feet. Excepting common ownership lots, single-family structures may be built on an existing substandard lot.

MAXIMUM BUILDING HEIGHT – PRINCIPAL STRUCTURE The maximum permitted building height for any principal residential structure in the R1-R3 districts, including any exterior knee-wall, is not permitted to exceed 35 feet, measured from grade to peak, or 2 ½ stories, whichever is less. An exterior knee-wall is not permitted to exceed 3 feet in height and is only permitted under a gable or hip roof. The half-story is that portion of a building between a sloped roof and the building’s top story. The minimum roof slope ratio of any roof above a half-story is 2:12. Heights of buildings or structures legally existing as of October 22, 2012, are considered compliant, and if destroyed, may be replaced to their original heights

Dormers are permitted on half stories above two stories under the following conditions:  The roof of the structure is sloped,  Total side dormers permitted to occupy no more than 30% of the length of a side wall,  A side dormer not permitted to be located within 20% of the length of the side wall closest to the front façade,  A front dormer is permitted to occupy no more than 30% of the length of the front building face and must be located within the center 60% of the length of the front façade.

MAXIMUM BUILDING HEIGHT – DETACHED ACCESSORY STRUCTURE

Garages and coach houses - 

Flat and mansard roofs: 20ft and not exceeding 2 stories whichever is less

Without flat and mansard roofs: 28ft and not exceeding 2 stories, whichever is less

Detached accessory structures other than garages and coach houses

Flat and mansard roofs: 14.5 ft
Without flat and mansard roofs: 20ft

Maximum building lot coverage: R1: 30%, R2: 40%, R3: 45%

Building lot coverage includes all ground floor roofed areas, includes roofed/covered stoops/landings, patios, decks, and other similar surfaces. 50% of the surface area of an open front porch is excluded when it meets the following conditions:  Open to the air,  Not all weather,  Roofed or not roofed, screened or not screened,  Facing a street,  Not a rear or back porch or any portion of a porch between the rear wall of the house and rear lot line,  Not separated by the street right-of-way by a fence exceeding 60% opacity and 4 feet in height.

Maximum impervious surface coverage: R1: 45%, R2: 55%, R3: 60%

Impervious surface coverage is calculated by dividing the total defined net impervious surfaces on the zoning lot by the area of the zoning lot. The total defined net impervious surfaces on the zoning lot are all areas included in the building lot coverage plus any hard surfaced area that does not readily absorb water, including, but not limited to: paved asphalt and concrete areas, parking/driveway areas, swimming pools, and sidewalks.

Pervious paving systems receive a 25% discount towards the measured area. Other permeable paving systems receive a 20% discount towards the measured area. Solid concrete and asphalt do not receive a discount. Decks that are not roofed/covered with a permeable surface underneath, covering up to 3% of the zoning lot area are excluded from impervious surface coverage calculation. Any portion of the deck exceeding 3$ of the zoning lot area counts towards coverage at 100%.

Minimum Yard Requirements:

Residential Structures - Front yard: 27ft, parking prohibited
Residential Structures - Street side yard: 15ft, parking prohibited
Residential Structures - Interior side yard: 5ft
Residential Structures - Rear yard: 30ft

Nonresidential Structures - Front yard: 27ft, parking prohibited
Nonresidential Structures - Street side yard: 15ft, parking prohibited
Nonresidential Structures - Interior side yard: 15ft, parking prohibited

Accessory Uses and Structures - general: Front yard: 27ft, garages only
Accessory Uses and Structures - general:    Street Side yard: 15ft, garages only
Accessory Uses and Structures - general:    Interior Side yard: 5ft
Accessory Uses and Structures - general: Rear yard: 3ft

No accessory building shall be within 10 feet of the nearest wall of the principal building. 
No accessory building is permitted within the required front or street side yard, and not permitted between the front of the principal building and the front lot line. 
Accessory buildings located in a rear yard or interior side yard shall be located at least 3 feet from any property line. 
No accessory building located in the rear yard of a corner lot is permitted to be nearer to the street lot line than the minimum street side yard setback. 
Detached accessory uses and structures are not permitted within a street side yard or an interior side yard between the principal structure and interior side property line, and not located between the building line and the principal structure. 
Minimum Parking Requirements:

Number of required parking per dwelling unit: Single-family detached: 2
Two-family dwellings: 1.5

Accessory Dwelling Unit (ADU)

One ADU is permitted per zoning lot and may be created through new construction, alteration of an existing structure, addition to an existing structure, or conversion of any existing structure to an ADU while simultaneously constructing a new residential building on the site. 
The property owner is not required to reside on the property. However, an ADU is required to remain under common ownership with the principal structure. 
Occupancy of an ADU is limited to one family. 
ADU is required to be smaller than the floor area of the largest primary dwelling unit. A detached ADU, internal or attached ADU created through new construction, internal or attached ADU created through an addition to an existing structure, or detached ADU created through the conversion of an existing structure to an ADU shall not exceed 1,000 square feet. However, an internal or attached ADU created through the altering of an existing structure may exceed 1,000 square feet of floor area but is limited to one level of the existing structure. One pedestrian entrance to the structure is permitted to be on the front facing façade of the principal building. Exterior stairs serving the ADU are required to be located on the interior side or rear of the principal building. 
An ADU does not require an off-street parking space 
Permitted and special uses:
Bed and breakfast establishment / hotel - R1: Special, R2: Special, R3: Special
Cemetery: R1: Special, R2: Special, R3: Special
Child residential care home: R1: Special, R2: Special, R3: Special
Cultural facility: R1: Special, R2: Special, R3: Special
Daycare center - adult or child: R1: Special, R2: Special, R3: Special
Daycare home - adult or child: R1: Permitted, R2: Permitted, R3: Permitted
Dwelling - Single-family detached:    R1: Permitted, R2: Permitted, R3: Permitted
Dwelling - Two-family:    R1: Permitted, R2: Permitted, R3: Permitted
Educational Institution - private:    R1: Special, R2: Special, R3: Special
Educational Institution - public:    R1: Permitted, R2: Permitted, R3: Permitted
Efficiency Home:    R1: Permitted, R2: Permitted, R3: Permitted
Home occupation:    R1: Permitted, R2: Permitted, R3: Permitted
Neighborhood garden:    R1: Permitted, R2: Permitted, R3: Permitted
Park:    R1: Permitted, R2: Permitted, R3: Permitted
Planned development:    R1: Special, R2: Special, R3: Special
Public utility:    R1: Special, R2: Special, R3: Special
Religious institution:    R1: Special, R2: Special, R3: Special
Transitional treatment facility:    R1: Special, R2: Special, R3: Special
Playground: R1: Permitted, R2: Permitted, R3: Permitted
Residential care home: R1: Permitted, R2: Permitted, R3: Permitted
